# INTRODUCTION
The idea comes from scannell's blog, [Fuzzing for eBPF JIT bugs in the Linux kernel](https://scannell.io/posts/ebpf-fuzzing/).

It contains three parts:
- [qemu fuzzlib](https://github.com/snorez/clib/blob/master/src/qemu_fuzzlib.c)
- ebpf sample generator
- exception handler in the linux kernel

# QEMU FUZZLIB
This module is mainly used to test the linux kernel. It uses [the modified syzkaller script](https://github.com/snorez/clib/blob/master/tools/create-image.sh) to generate debian buster image file and all other necessary files. The modified script adds a new normal user `test` without a password.

This module provide an interface `qemu_fuzzlib_env_setup()` for the caller to
initialize the fuzzing environment, the prototype of the function is:
```c
extern struct qemu_fuzzlib_env *
qemu_fuzzlib_env_setup(char *user_name, u64 user_id, char *qemu_exec_path,
			char *bzImage_file, char *osimage_file,
			char *host_id_rsa, char *listen_ip, u32 inst_max,
			u32 idle_sec, u32 inst_memsz, u32 inst_core,
			char *env_workdir, char *guest_workdir,
			char *guest_user, char *script_file, char *c_file,
			char *sample_fname, char *fuzz_db,
			int (*db_init)(struct qemu_fuzzlib_env *),
			int (*mutate)(struct qemu_fuzzlib_env *, char *));
```
- `user_name`: the fuzzer's name, in this project, it is `ebpf_fuzzer`.
- `user_id`: default `0`.
- `qemu_exec_path`: the binary absolute path to qemu, e.g. `/usr/bin/qemu-system-x86_64`.
- `osimage_file`: the absolute path to bzImage file.
- `host_id_rsa`: the `id_rsa` file generated by the modified script.
- `listen_ip`: `10.0.2.10` recommended.
- `inst_max`: how many qemu instances will be launched.
- `idle_sec`: how many seconds will wait for until an qemu instance is ready for a new sample.
- `inst_memsz`: the memory size for each qemu instance.
- `inst_core`: the core number for each qemu instance.
- `env_workdir`: the work directory of the fuzzing process.
- `guest_workdir`: the work directory of the guest, normally `/tmp`.
- `guest_user`: the user will be used to login the guest, could be `test` or `root`. We need a normal user to trigger different code paths in the kernel.
- `script_file`: the script file will be uploaded to the guest and be executed in the guest. Default: `default_guest.sh`.
- `c_file`: the C source file that will be uploaded to the guest and be compiled and executed in the guest to execute the sample and catch the exception of the sample process. Default: `default_guest.c`.
- `sample_fname`: the sample filename.
- `fuzz_db`: the fuzzing database, not used for now.
- `db_init`: the callback used to initialize the database.
- `mutate`: the callback used to generate new sample.

After the fuzzing environment is setup, the caller should call `qemu_fuzzlib_env_run()` to start the fuzzer.

The `qemu_fuzzlib_env_run()` function generates new sample and put it into an available qemu instance to execute, until no more sample is generated or no available qemu instance found after the `idle_sec` seconds.

# EBPF SAMPLE GENERATOR
We need to focus on just one thing: the `mutate()` callback. This function is used to generate new sample, in this ebpf fuzzer, to generate new ebpf sample.

The scannell's blog give us a perfect guidance to generate ebpf samples. I recommend you to read the blog first.

In the current implementation, the sample's header and tail are known. We need to generate the sample body, which is filled by ebpf instructions. The instructions do several things:
- get the two bpf map pointers.
- random instructions to manipulate the `INVALID_P_REG`. implemented in `insn_body()`.
- an ALU operation on `CORRUPT_REG`.
- read from `CORRUPT_REG` and write the value to `STORAGE_REG`.
- exit

After all instructions generated, we need to print the instructions and write them to the sample file.

### insn_body()
- `gen_body0()`: set the `SPECIAL_REG` bounds.
- `gen_body1()`: generate bpf instructions up to `max_body_insn`. Six types of instructions:
	- `INSN_GENERATOR_JMP`: `BPF_JMP`.
	- `INSN_GENERATOR_ALU`: `BPF_ALU`.
	- `INSN_GENERATOR_MOV`: `BPF_MOV`.
	- `INSN_GENERATOR_LD`: `BPF_LD_IMM64()`.
	- `INSN_GENERATOR_NON`: `BPF_REG_0` = `0`.
	- `INSN_GENERATOR_MAX`: the last insn, `INVALID_P_REG` = `SPECIAL_REG`.

# EXCEPTION HANDLER IN THE LINUX KERNEL
The first time I run the fuzzer to trigger [cve-2020-8835](https://www.thezdi.com/blog/2020/4/8/cve-2020-8835-linux-kernel-privilege-escalation-via-improper-ebpf-program-verification), the guest frozen: one of the kernel threads runs into an infinite loop. [Check this commit](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/stable/linux.git/commit/kernel/bpf/verifier.c?h=v5.10.70&id=569033c0825e4d90f7e824696dd334d239adc997): the verifier rewrote original instructions it recognized as dead code with 'goto PC-1'.

This is a good way to detect bugs in the bpf verifier.

What else?
